# PirateDB - Silver Rating / Needs minor tweaks.
Compatibility information for pirated games on Linux, be it Native or through Wine.

## Ancestors Legacy [Wine]

- Needs mfplat install.

## ABZU [Wine]

- Steam version of the game is borked, but `GOG` runs without any issues.

## Assassins Creed Odyssey [Wine]

- add to the game dir dxvk.conf file containing "dxgi.nvapiHack = False" (For Nvidia users)

## A Total War Saga: TROY [CPY] [Wine]

- Works on Proton 5.13 and Wine 5.19 at least.

## Borderlands 3 [EMPRESS] [Wine]

- Only works on Wine. Needs both mf-plat and mf-installcab installed.

## Brawlhalla [Wine] [CODEX]

- It works fine on WINE, but it keeps running after quitting the game, but you can kill it by this command:
pkill Brawlhalla.exe --signal KILL

## Call of Duty: WWII [Wine]

- Had issues that were fixed on a recent version of Wine.

## Fort Boyar [Wine]

- Needs mfplat install.

## Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City [Wine]

vcrun6 needed.

## Hitman 2 [CPY] [Wine]

CPY crack is older but works on all wine versions.

CODEX crack is newer and works on Proton only. (Tested on 5.13-2)

## Life is Strange 2 [Native]

- Goldberg crack works fine, run it using `steamclient_loader.sh`.

## Middle-Earth Shadow of War [EMPRESS] [Wine]

- Will work on Wine 5.19.

## MotoGP 2019/2020 [Wine]

- run winetricks d3dcompiler_47 and install mf-plat.

## Nier: Automata [CPY] [Wine]

- Game works fine, the latest version of FAR mod seems to crash the game though, dinput8.dll to be specific.

## Northgard [Native] [GOG]

- GOG has no multiplayer.

- Tried Steam version, it works on Steam but I couldn't get it working with Goldberg. The Steam version has weird structure with windows files included and no real start script besides /linux/run.sh that's not working.

## Prey (2017) [Wine]

- Voksi crack for version 1.07 does not work on WINE, but Baldman crack for version 1.04 works fine, and the latest version of the game is available now on GOG.

## Planetary Annihilation: TITANS v114823 + OST [JavaScript] [Linux Native]

- In order to play LAN game. Change your username with the optional: --username parameter. For example: "....TITANS/run.sh" --username Danger

Different usernames are required in order to allow multiplayer. Next do NOT forget to select Open To: 'Public' (right top) when you hosted a local server, otherwise it will not be visible on the LAN network.

## Project Cars 3 [CODEX] [Wine]

- Crack works but does not remove the connection checking that happens regularly. Causes regular stutters.

## Sakuna of Rice and Ruin [Wine]

- Windows 10 mode will break audio. Use windows 7 mode instead in winecfg.
- Only works on wine-tkg from our tests.

## Silent Hill 2 / Enhanced Edition [Wine]

- Enhancements need to be applied in order to work better with wine.

- When starting, it might also freeze with a white screen sometimes.

### Sleeping Dogs: Definitive Edition [Wine]

The game will display a white screen on startup, you must use enable virtual desktop to resolve this.

## SoulCalibur VI  [EMPRESS] [Wine]

mf-installcab is needed for this game.
This modified version of  Wine is needed to run the game https://1337x.to/torrent/4486375/Total-War-WARHAMMER-II-v1-8-3-Linux-Native/
In the future the crack may work with normal wine.
- Click any button at start

## SpongeBob SquarePants: Battle for Bikini Bottom - Rehydrated [Wine]

Use Winetricks to install d3dcompiler_47 to resolve this. The audio can go out of sync in cutscenes, use Winetricks to install faudio to help with this. The main game can be completed.

## Star Control: Origins [Wine]

- Needs vcrun2015

## Tekken 7 [EMPRESS] [Wine]

- The crack works fine on wine-staging, but it fails on wine-tkg.
- You will probably need to optimize the performance. Install a custom kernel like tkg and enable fsync.

## Total War Three Kingdoms [Goldberg] [Native]

- Adding mods:

1. Add mod packs to the data directory
2. Register mods in the preferences.scripts.txt file as "mod modpackname.pack;" without the quotes
3. Change preferences.scripts.txt file to read-only (you can no longer save settings, but otherwise the game overwrites the changes after each time you close the game)<br>

- The mods will not show up on the launcher.

## Total War Warhammer II [Native]

- Game works but some people had crashes on an older version of the game.

## Torchlight III [Goldberg] [Wine]

- mfplat-install is needed.

## The Sinking City [Wine]

- mfplat-install needed.

## The Days Long Gone [Wine]

- mf-plat-install needed.

## Wolfenstein 3D [Native]

Since it's not a GOG release, it's not coming with runtime so steam-runtime may be necessary on some distros. Use steam-installer for ease of use.

## XCOM 2 War of the Chosen [CODEX] [Wine]

Game must be started from this file:
Program Files (x86)/XCOM 2 War of the Chosen/XCom2-WarOfTheChosen/Binaries/Win64/XCom2.exe

start the game with these arguments "-allowconsole -noRedScreens -review"

In winetweaks install: D3dcompiler_47

Important notes: fitgirl, and dodi repacks of this game wont install

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Contributors:
```
- johncena141, ah_86,jbabyb
```